---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: new post for fathers day
metaTitle: ""
metaDesc: ""
date: 2021-06-13T13:02:58.216Z
tags:
  - father's day
---
# MAKING THE RIGHT START

The tests of an educated man are the following essentials: knowledge, faith, clear thinking, accuracy of expression, self-control, power of initiative, good conduct, good manners.

Crooked Thinking 
    The manager was agitated. A department head had been guilty of a peculiarly asinine display of stupidity that had cost the firm not only money but prestige. I waited a moment—then the storm broke. "Do you know," raged the manager, "I'd give ten thousand a year to that man if he would only think about his work." I knew that plant thoroughly. The philosophy of its management was summed up in: "Patent your product; buy out when you can't beat competitors; use the best machinery only; keep your sales force on the jump—the rest is mere detail." They hired men not because they were thinkers, but because they had "recommendations" and were cheap. Only that morning the secretary said to me, "No clerk in the accounting department can be worth more than twelve dollars a week." The employment department made no tests to see if a man thought, or if he had been trained. Thus, the first separation was too coarse, and the result was a high cost of production, whether of thought or machines. 

   The management was thinking crooked and of course the business was crooked. Inefficiency was constitutional because this manager's men were not promoted for thinking; they were promoted by the calendar and the time-clock, and for being "faithful to the management." The manager did not think about men; he swore about men and thought about things — costs, percentages, profits, loans at the bank, machine production, taxes and politics. He could marshal figures and material in great detail, but hepossessed little aptitude in managing the human forces of the business. He had no standards to guide him in either the keeping or hiring of men, else he would have measured their value by their capacities. He never thought for them, only about what they did. He was a doer and proud of it. He, like thousands of our managers, did not recognize the truth of Stephenson's statement, "The greatest engineering is the engineering of men." He didn't have the right basis for his philosophy of management, and hence he didn't start his men right and their finish was always a problem of vexed uncertainty. The Value of Thought This manager could never have appreciated the mental attitude of James J. Hill, who, looking at a young man who had told him that an order which Hill had sent out was wrong, read it over and said: "I believe you'll do— you think." What is this habit of thought the manager offered so high a price to gain? It is the first principle of successful living. To think right is the final test of a man's value, for it is the necessary start toward right action. It is fundamental to the practical life—the life which says that the efficient doing of things is the test of a man's social value. 

\    What a man thinks is the most important thing about him—much more important than that he is a millionaire. It is more important to know what an employe thinks than what he can do. If he thinks right, I can use him for right doing. If he does not think, and cannot be made to think, he is a liability in everything he does. As a Man Thinketh "As a man thinks, so he is," said the wisest man. We assent, but we do not act on the belief. Somehow the average business man has confounded thinking with what he calls theorizing. We damn theory. It is cheap to be a theorist; but so it is to be a dollar-a-day laborer. Ignoring the good and the bad in theory, we build a generalization upon an exception. As usual, we make too few distinctions—and many of these on wrong grounds. Every thinker must theorize. "I would not have a man about me who would not theorize, because he would be prejudiced, ignorant, opinionated, time-serving, precedent-worshipping, dogmatic, and happy only when in tune with such outworn practice as he could understand," said the manager of a great electrical manufacturing concern. The thinker may be radical, progressive, conservative —that does not so much matter. There is always hope for a man who thinks, for he will develop a philosophy of life which will set up standards. The thinker in tune with the times is hospitable to truth; he recognizes his place in the world; he knows that nothing is fortuitous; he respects and observes the law, as he sees it; he changes because he sees all else change. The speed of his adaptation conforms to the needs of his life and his problems, but he changes be-cause he recognizes the necessity for keeping in touch with life as it really is. 

\    As a practical man, therefore, in the most hard-headed sense of that ill-used term, I esteem the thinker above all the other workers in a business; and the manner of the thinking, and the philosophy which is always the result of the thinking, are the most important things about the man, and in every work I always make a generous appropriation for thinking, research, invention—it is business insurance. When a manager says, "No stenographer can be worth more than $12.00 a week," I know he is not thinking right; hei is following experience. I know he never has stenographers who are worth more than $12.00 a week. How can he? He is thinking of $12.00 a week—not of the value of stenographers. He confounds price and value. His business is going to be no larger than the thinker who guides it. This means, then, that we may have to change our minds about many things as the first step towards effi- ciency, but changing our mind is the most difficult thing for some of us to do. The Moral Risk J. Pierpont Morgan, just before his death, surprised the unthinking man when he said: "A man might not have anything. I have known a man to come into my office and I have given him a check for a million dollars, and I knew that he had not a cent in the world." On the same occasion, he said: "A man I do not trust could not get money from me on all the bonds in Christendom."* Yet why should the utterance of a mere fundamental of Testimony before the Money Trust investigators, credit by this banker and organizer cause so great comment among business men? Have we not recognized the moral risk as the greatest risk in credits, insurance, and in business generally? As a matter of fact, however, character is not the only asset a borrower must have and this is quite as well established among the lenders of money as is Mr. Morgan's personal rule of conduct. 

The Thinker as a Seer 

\    What do we see when we look out into our world today? Are we satisfied with the conditions there, and with what we know the future promises? That outlook gives back to each only what he knows about the things he sees. We have confidence in the future only in proportion as we are assured of being able to read the true meaning of the past and present. We can understand the Book of Life only as we understand the words in which it is written. Herein surely lies the reason for the world's unrest today. But to the trained thinker is revealed at least a part of the solution. 

The Changing World Problem 

\    Our faiths in the old beliefs and interpretations of the world—of man's part in it, of man's relation to man—are slipping away. The old creeds and faiths do not conform with our new experiences of things as they are; old rewards do not satisfy, do not justify a man's life. We are feeling ahead for new and workable plans in the business world and in our individual lives. We have found that even the gods grow old, for do not the creeds on which we have reared those gods become outworn? We see the sweating labor of this great nation with its vast resources, and feel a shock of bewildered pain that a people so energetic, resourceful, and willing, should get so little of content, happiness, rest, and satisfaction for the great price paid. Right or wrong, a lot of people are not content with their opportunities and rewards, and are growing restive under present conditions. I do not believe it is merely the envy of the rich—but a man wants to live beyond the three-square-meals-a-day life. He wants to get above the mere physical plane. Vocational Adjustment as a Solution Professor James stated our problem when he said: "How can men be trained up to their most useful pitch of energy?" While only five per cent of people are actually unusable, it is a small fraction of the ninety-five per cent who are so placed as to make it possible for them to work at their "most useful pitch of energy." Here is the problem—and its key—of the whole puzzling, complex condition in America. When you have put the man where he can do his best work in the best way for the best pay, you have gained the end sought— more satisfaction and content for the man, more profit for society. Learning to Think Right We cannot help thinking today about business, capi- tal, and labor, as we had to think about taxation in 1776, or about slavery in 1860. Those who have not been taught to think by accurate processes are forced into new, if impotent, positions..